---
title: "CSE100 : Principles of Programming using C++"
collection: teaching
type: "Lectures"
permalink: 
venue: "Arizona State University"
date: 2013-01-01
location: "Tempe, Arizona"
---

This is a description of a teaching experience. You can use markdown like any other post.

What You’ll Learn
======
• Demonstrate problem solving techniques for programming
• Develop algorithms to solve problems; demonstrate effective troubleshooting, testing,
and debugging of programs
• Describe and apply variables, basic and composite data types, and collections to the
development of programs
• Develop programs using fundamental structures of sequence, selection, and iteration.
• Write functions that accept parameters and return results
• Implement object-oriented programs
• Describe the importance and relevance of computing and programming skills in our
lives and careers

Syllabus
======
1. Develop programs that use fundamental data types, strings, arrays, and objects. 
2. Use predefined library functions in programs. 
3. Write programs with multiple user-defined functions. 
4. Use flow of control structures. 
5. Understand the pass-by-value and pass-by-reference parameter passing techniques. 
6. Understand variable scope and use scope appropriately in programs. 
7. Understand 1-D and 2-D arrays and use them appropriately in programs. 
8. Develop object-oriented C++ programs using classes, information hiding, and inheritance. 
9. Use the Unified Modeling Language (UML) to design and document classes. 
10. Understand searching and basic sorting algorithms. 



