---
title: "Towards Identifying Design Paradigms for Describing Indoor Floor Maps to Individuals with Visual Impairment."
collection: Workshop Paper
permalink: /publication/2016-06-19-chi
excerpt: 'This paper is about a case study that lead to learning salient differences in understanding nagivation when you have a visual impairment.'
date: 2016-06-19
venue: 'CHI'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/methodStudy_Chi.pdf'
citation: 
---
Navigation, an essential facet of everyday life, is one of the big challenges faced by individuals with visual impairment. In-spite of the presence of aids like canes, seeing-eye dogs and GPS devices, they still face considerable difficulty in
everyday navigation. While navigating indoors is relatively
safer, it is still a stressful exercise. We propose to look into
methods to understand the underlying principles to generate
a verbal description specially catered to individuals with
visual impairment (VI). We invited four individuals with VI
to give sample ‘verbal descriptions’ of a building to their
peers with VI. We picked a public building that houses the
city’s disability services due to its familiarity with the
participants. We then invited them to criticize each of the
answers to obtain additional feedback. We then analyzed
the answers to derive the structural and language
preferences. A prototype system for automated verbal
description generation was built using the derived
paradigms and evaluated by a group of seventeen visually
impaired people. Feedback obtained from the participants in
our experiments suggests that this case study is indeed an
effective approach for developing such a system.

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/methodStudy_Chi.pdf)

